<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h2><a id="bookmark0"></a><span class="font67" style="font-weight:bold;">Acknowledgments</span></h2>
<p><span class="font64">This book would not have been possible without the contributions of many people.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">We would like to thank those who commented on our proposal for the book and helped plan its contents and organization: Guillaume Alain, Kyunghyun Cho,&#160;Qaglar Gulgehre, David Krueger, Hugo Larochelle, Razvan Pascanu and Thomas&#160;Rohee.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">We would like to thank the people who offered feedback on the content of the book itself. Some offered feedback on many chapters: Martm Abadi, Guillaume&#160;Alain, Ion Androutsopoulos, Fred Bertsch, Olexa Bilaniuk, Ufuk Can Bigici, Matko&#160;Bosnjak, John Boersma, Greg Brockman, Alexandre de Brebisson, Pierre Luc&#160;Carrier, Sarath Chandar, Pawel Chilinski, Mark Daoust, Oleg Dashevskii, Laurent&#160;Dinh, Stephan Dreseitl, Jim Fan, Miao Fan, Meire Fortunato, Frederic Francis,&#160;Nando de Freitas, Qaglar Gulgehre, Jurgen Van Gael, Javier Alonso Garaa,&#160;Jonathan Hunt, Gopi Jeyaram, Chingiz Kabytayev, Lukasz Kaiser, Varun Kanade,&#160;Akiel Khan, John King, Diederik P. Kingma, Yann LeCun, Rudolf Mathey, Matias&#160;Mattamala, Abhinav Maurya, Kevin Murphy, Oleg Murk, Roman Novak, Augustus&#160;Q. Odena, Simon Pavlik, Karl Pichotta, Kari Pulli, Roussel Rahman, Tapani Raiko,&#160;Anurag Ranjan, Johannes Roith, Mihaela Rosca, Halis Sak, Cesar Salgado, Grigory&#160;Sapunov, Yoshinori Sasaki, Mike Schuster, Julian Serban, Nir Shabat, Ken Shirriff,&#160;Andre Simpelo, Scott Stanley, David Sussillo, Ilya Sutskever, Carles Gelada Saez,&#160;Graham Taylor, Valentin Tolmer, An Tran, Shubhendu Trivedi, Alexey Umnov,&#160;Vincent Vanhoucke, Marco Visentini-Scarzanella, David Warde-Farley, Dustin&#160;Webb, Kelvin Xu, Wei Xue, Ke Yang, Li Yao, Zygmunt Zaj^c and Ozan Qaglayan.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">We would also like to thank those who provided us with useful feedback on individual chapters:</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Notation: Zhang Yuanhang.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 1, Introduction: Yusuf Akgul, Sebastien Bratieres, Samira Ebrahimi,&#160;Charlie Gorichanaz, Brendan Loudermilk, Eric Morris, Cosmin Parvulescu&#160;and Alfredo Solano.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 2, Linear Algebra: Amjad Almahairi, Nikola Banic, Kevin Bennett,&#160;Philippe Castonguay, Oscar Chang, Eric Fosler-Lussier, Andrey Khalyavin,&#160;Sergey Oreshkov, Istvan Petras, Dennis Prangle, Thomas Rohee, Colby&#160;Toland, Massimiliano Tomassoli, Alessandro Vitale and Bob Welland.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 3, Probability and Information Theory: John Philip Anderson, Kai&#160;Arulkumaran, Vincent Dumoulin, Rui Fa, Stephan Gouws, Artem Oboturov,&#160;Antti Rasmus, Alexey Surkov and Volker Tresp.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 4, Numerical Computation: Tran Lam An, Ian Fischer, and Hu&#160;Yuhuang.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 5, Machine Learning Basics: Dzmitry Bahdanau, Nikhil Garg,&#160;Makoto Otsuka, Bob Pepin, Philip Popien, Emmanuel Rayner, Kee-Bong&#160;Song, Zheng Sun and Andy Wu.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 6, Deep Feedforward Networks: Uriel Berdugo, Fabrizio Bottarel,&#160;Elizabeth Burl, Ishan Durugkar, Jeff Hlywa, Jong Wook Kim, David Krueger&#160;and Aditya Kumar Praharaj.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 7, Regularization for Deep Learning: Kshitij Lauria, Inkyu Lee,&#160;Sunil Mohan and Joshua Salisbury.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 8, Optimization for Training Deep Models: Marcel Ackermann,&#160;Rowel Atienza, Andrew Brock, Tegan Maharaj, James Martens, Klaus Strobl&#160;and Martin Vita.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 9, Convolutional Networks: Martin Arjovsky, Eugene Brevdo, Konstantin Divilov, Eric Jensen, Asifullah Khan, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Paino, Eddie&#160;Pierce, Marjorie Sayer, Ryan Stout and Wentao Wu.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 10, Sequence Modeling: Recurrent and Recursive Nets: Gokgen&#160;Eraslan, Steven Hickson, Razvan Pascanu, Lorenzo von Ritter, Rui Rodrigues,&#160;Dmitriy Serdyuk, Dongyu Shi and Kaiyu Yang.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 11, Practical Methodology: Daniel Beckstein.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 12, Applications: George Dahl and Ribana Roscher.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 15, Representation Learning: Kunal Ghosh.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64" style="font-weight:bold;font-style:italic;">•</span><span class="font64"> &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 16, Structured Probabilistic Models for Deep Learning: Minh Le&#160;and Anton Varfolom.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 18, Confronting the Partition Function: Sam Bowman.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 19, Approximate Inference: Yujia Bao.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Chapter 20, Deep Generative Models: Nicolas Chapados, Daniel Galvez,&#160;Wenming Ma, Fady Medhat, Shakir Mohamed and Gregoire Montavon.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">• &#160;&#160;&#160;Bibliography: Lukas Michelbacher and Leslie N. Smith.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">We also want to thank those who allowed us to reproduce images, figures or data from their publications. We indicate their contributions in the figure captions&#160;throughout the text.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">We would like to thank Lu Wang for writing pdf2htmlEX, which we used to make the web version of the book, and for offering support to improve the quality&#160;of the resulting HTML.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">We would like to thank Ian’s wife Daniela Flori Goodfellow for patiently supporting Ian during the writing of the book as well as for help with proofreading.</span></p>
<p><span class="font64">We would like to thank the Google Brain team for providing an intellectual environment where Ian could devote a tremendous amount of time to writing this&#160;book and receive feedback and guidance from colleagues. We would especially like&#160;to thank Ian’s former manager, Greg Corrado, and his current manager, Samy&#160;Bengio, for their support of this project. Finally, we would like to thank Geoffrey&#160;Hinton for encouragement when writing was difficult.</span></p>
</body>
</html>